---
parent: Configuration
ancestor: Image Customizer
---

# InjectArtifactMetadata type

This is a preview feature.
Its API and behavior is subject to change.
You must enable this feature by specifying `inject-files` in the
[previewFeatures](./injectFilesConfig.md#previewfeatures-string) API or
via the [--preview-feature](../cli/cli.md#--preview-featurefeature) flag.

Defines a single artifact to be injected into a partition during image modification.

This is used in the [`InjectFilesConfig`](./injectFilesConfig.md) array
when performing injection via the [`inject-files` CLI command](../cli/inject-files.md).

Added in v0.14.

## Example

```yaml
partition:
  idType: part-uuid
  id: b9f59ced-d1a6-44a7-91d9-4d623a39b032
destination: /EFI/BOOT/bootx64.efi
source: ./shim/bootx64.efi
type: shim
```

## partition [InjectFilePartition](./injectFilePartition.md)

Required.

The target partition where the artifact should be injected.

This field must be an object of type [`InjectFilePartition`](./injectFilePartition.md), with fields:

- `idType`: How the partition should be identified. Options:
  - `uuid`
  - `part-uuid`
  - `part-label`
- `id`: The identifier value (such as the GPT partition UUID or label).

Added in v0.14.

## destination [string]

Required.

The absolute path (inside the target partition) where the artifact should be copied.

For example: `/EFI/BOOT/bootx64.efi`

Added in v0.14.

## source [string]

Required.

Path to the artifact file to be injected. This path may be relative to the
`inject-files.yaml` config file or an absolute path.

When the config file is generated by the output artifacts API, this will be the
path of the unsigned artifact. Users should replace this file with the signed
version before running the inject-files command.

Artifacts are organized in subdirectories matching their type (e.g. `ukis/`, `shim/`,
`systemd-boot/`, `verity-hash/`). For UKI artifacts with addon architecture, the
addon files are stored in a `.efi.extra.d/` subdirectory next to the main UKI file
(e.g. `ukis/vmlinuz-6.6.X.efi.extra.d/vmlinuz-6.6.X.addon.efi`).

Added in v0.14.

## type [string]

Optional.

The type of artifact being injected. This field helps users identify which signing
process to apply to each artifact.

For supported values, see [`output.artifacts.items`](./outputArtifacts.md#items-string).

Added in v1.1.
