---
parent: Configuration
---

# pxe type

Specifies the configuration for the generated PXE artifacts when the `--output-format`
is set to `pxe-dir` or `pxe-tar`.

If the `--output-format` is set to `pxe-dir`, `--output-path` will point to a
directory where the customized PXE artifacts will be placed.

If the `--output-format` is set to `pxe-tar`, `--output-path` will point to a
`.tar.gz` file where the customized PXE artifacts will be archived in.

Example:

```yaml
pxe:
  additionalFiles:
  - source: files/a.txt
    destination: /a.txt

  kernelCommandLine:
    extraCommandLine:
    - rd.info

  initramfsType: bootstrap

  bootstrapBaseUrl: http://my-pxe-server
```

See also the [PXE Support](../../concepts/pxe.md) page.

## keepKdumpBootFiles [bool]

If set to true, the Image Customizer tool will not delete any kdump files found
under the boot folder on the full OS image. The kdump files include:

- a crashdump initramfs image named `initramfs-<kernel-version>kdump.img`.
- a kernel named  `vmlinuz-<kernel-version>` - where its version matches that of
  the `initramfs-<kernel-version>kdump.img`.

The default is `false`.

Note that by default, the Image Customizer tool removes the `/boot` folder from
the full OS image. This is because all of its contents have already been copied
unto the root of the PXE artifacts folder.

Added in v0.16.

## kernelCommandLine [[kernelCommandLine](./kernelcommandline.md)]

Specifies extra kernel command line options.

Added in v0.15.

## additionalFiles [[additionalFile](./additionalfile.md)[]]

Adds files to the PXE artifacts.

Added in v0.15.

## initramfsType [string]

Specifies the initramfs type to generate and include in the PXE artifacts.

Supported options:

- `bootstrap`: Creates a minimal Dracut-based initramfs image that later
  transitions to the full OS. The full OS is packaged in a separate image
  and is included on in the PXE artifacts folder for the initramfs to find it.
  This option allows the generated PXE artifacts to boot on hardware that has
  memory restrictions on the initramfs image size.
- `full-os`: Creates a full OS initramfs image.

The default value for `initramfsType` is `full-os`.

Note that SELinux cannot be enabled if `initramfsType` is set to `full-os`.

Example:

```yaml
pxe:
  initramfsType: bootstrap
```

For an overview of the Image Customizer tool support for PXE, see the
[PXE support](../../concepts/pxe.md) page.

Added in v0.15.

## bootstrapBaseUrl [string]

Specifies the base URL for the bootstrap ISO image to download at boot time.
The bootstrap ISO image is generated by the Image Customizer tool along with the
rest of the PXE artifacts. The Image Customizer tool will append the
default image name (`image.iso`) to the specified base URL to form the full URL
for downloading the image.

For example, if the user has the following content in the configuration file:

```yaml
pxe:
  bootstrapBaseUrl: http://hostname-or-ip/iso-publish-path
```

Then the download URL becomes `http://hostname-or-ip/iso-publish-path/image.iso`.

This field is mutually exclusive with `bootstrapFileUrl`.

For an overview of the Image Customizer tool support for PXE, see the
[PXE support](../../concepts/pxe.md) page.

Added in v0.15.

## bootstrapFileUrl [string]

Specifies the URL of the bootstrap ISO image to download at boot time.
The bootstrap ISO image is generated by the Image Customizer tool along with the
rest of the PXE artifacts. The generated ISO will always be placed at the root
of the PXE artifacts folder (archive) and will be have the same name as the file
name specified by `bootstrapFileUrl`.

For example,

```yaml
pxe:
  bootstrapFileUrl: http://hostname-or-ip/iso-publish-path/my-bootstrap.iso
```

A file named `my-bootstrap.iso` will be placed at the root of the PXE artifacts
folder.

The supported download protocols are: nfs, http, https, ftp, torent, tftp.

This field is mutually exclusive with `bootstrapBaseUrl`.

For an overview of the Image Customizer tool support for PXE, see the
[PXE support](../../concepts/pxe.md) page.

Added in v0.15.
